Hi friends
In this video we are going to discuss about address of variables
So consider this C code
First we have an integer variable declaration statement for var
and is initialised to 10
And we have learned that an integer datatype
takes four bytes of memory
So four bytes will be allocated to variable var.
Suppose it if from address 1024 to 1027
And for this block the starting address is 1024 and it
is also called as the base address
Now the data which is 10 will be stored here
in this block
Now the second line of code is a printf statement
which prints the integer &var
So & symbol is used to get the address
of any variable
So here this statement will print the address of var
which is 1024
that is the base address of the block of
memory
allocated to var is printed
Now we have another printf statement here again
it prints an integer &var+1 and what you
think will be printed by this statement?
We have &var+1 and we know
&var equal to 1024
So 1024+1 equal to 1025.
Is it the right output? Actually not! because since var is an
integer type, compiler know that var must have taken four
bytes
So when it is incremented, it will be incremented by
four bytes that is size of integer
So this printf statement will be printing 1028
Now suppose var is a character type variable and it's
address is 1024
And now if we increment it, it will be incremented
by size of character which is one byte and
will print 1025. Again take the same case and suppose
it was double
Then it would get incremented by eight bytes which is
the size of double and will print 1032
Now come back to our code here with integer
type var and starting address 1024
now suppose we had to print one more value
which is &var+5
So how is that going to be calculated? Take the
base address of var which is 1024
We have to increment five times. so five times the size
of integer
So 1024+(5 * size of integer) which
is 5 * 4 that is 20. So 1024 +20
equal to 1044
So in general we can say if we add
N to a variable address the output will be the base
address + N * size of the data type
So that's all and thank you for watching this video